---
title: Iced Teas
categories:
- uncategorized
writing-tags:
- tagless
---

Herein I track the results of my attempts to brew tasty iced tea.  Unless noted, each combination is used to brew 3 quarts and is sweetened with 3 packets of Equal in an 8 oz bottle (no ice).  At least, that's what the Mr. Coffee brewer and Voss water bottles are labeled… I only get 7-8 bottles, while simple math says that should be 12 worth.




  * 2 Celestial Seasonings Cinnamon Apple Spice

Good stuff!


  * 1 Celestial Seasonings Cinnamon Apple Spice, 1 Bigelow English Teatime

Just as good, not as sweet.


  * 2 Bigelow Perfect Peach

Too weak.


  * 1 Bigelow Perfect Peach, 1 Bigelow English Teatime

Decent, but not very flavorful.


  * 3 Bigelow Strawberry Kiwi

Weak on flavor, but with a sour note.  Not good for cold tea.


  * 2 Bigelow Cinnamon Stick

Good stuff!  Cinnamon is a bit weak, maybe this would complement chai well.


  * 2 Celestial Seasonings Cinnamon Apple Spice, 1 Bigelow Earl Grey

Very good, clean aftertaste.


  * 1 Stash Double Spice Chai, 1 Bigelow English Teatime

Whoa, strong stuff.  Had to dilute a bit, but it is quite tasty.  Not quite as much aftertaste as with Tazo chai.


  * 1 Stash Double Spice Chai, 1 Celestial Seasonings Cinnamon Apple Spice

Nice blend.  Somehow, all the spicing highlights the apple.  Very reminiscent of a spiced cider.


  * 2 Bigelow Earl Grey

Tasty, but almost bland after acclimating to so many spices


  * 2 Tazo Chai

Flavorful and spicy.  Needs more cinnamon.
