---
title: New ride, again
categories:
- personal
content-tags:
- cycling
---

It's been more than 19 years, but I finally bought a [new road bike](/lists/tools/aethos/).

[Since 2004](/2004/01/02/new-ride.html) I’ve been riding the same [beautiful bike](/lists/tools/lemond/). I haven't logged every moment on it, but Strava says I put at least 16,000km on it. Much of those were outdoors on bad US roads so there are some signs of wear and the fork has started creaking. Since [Rouvy got me in the saddle more often](/weeks/2457/) and it's always been a little big for me[^fit], I began considering upgrades.

[^fit]: Mike Weiss of the best bike shop in St. Louis, [Big Shark](https://www.bigshark.com/), did a great job making it fit me. This required a comically stubby little stem.

It's hard to avoid cobbled pavement here, so vibration concerns led me to the Specialized Roubaix. Yet Shannon added some aesthetic judgment and I gave in to the temptation to upgrade; 7 months later I now have this Aethos. It's beautiful, with only subtle graphics and an understated finish and classic tube profiles.

I ordered without a test ride, trusting the reviewers' relentless praise for ride quality. They were not wrong.

Above all, it feels familiar. I fell into jinba ittai after only a few kilometers. Compared to the LeMond, the buzz of high frequency vibrations is slightly less, but the impact of major bumps is drastically reduced. This smoothness does not detract from the feeling of power transfer, though, I detect no slack between pedal and pavement. The steering feels a slight bit less twitchy, but is still plenty responsive.

This immediate comfort is a testament to the lasting quality of the old bike, and the design of the new one. I may be set for another 2 decades on the road.
